##Robinhood- no fees, no commissions- But how?

	At their public debut in March 2015, Robinhood brought upon a new age of investing by 
making the most popular securities trading available in a slick- easy to use app. Created 
by entrepreneurs and mathematicians Vladmir Tenev and Baiju Bhatt in April 2013, the popular 
app focused on making trading more accessible which successfully created a new wave of young
investors to forever change the trading landscape. The founders previously worked for financial
institutions building high frequency trading platforms. At that time, brokerages had hefty 
minimum account requirements, expensive trading fees, and clunky user experience (think calling
your brokerage to make a trade). Robinhood was initially able to raise $110 million in April 2017.
However after multiple rounds of fundraising, the most recent round being in May 2020, Robinhood 
has now raised a total of $1.7 billion with an impressive $11.2 billion valuation. 

	As their name implies, Robinhood brands themselves a company with the small guy in mind. 
Before Robinhood, securities trading was expensive, inefficient, and relatively inaccessible.
Founder Vladmir Tenev has always stated the company’s mission to solve these problems and greatly
out-deliver the institutions that deliver the current trading services. They do that with a 
seemingly implausible business model of no commissions, no fees, no minimum requirements. Up 
till this point, the majority of revenue from brokerage activity was made with fees and commissions. 
Like other brokerages, Robinhood’s model would still stand to profit from interest revenue on cash 
held and they also made money with a $5 a month subscription service that included premium services. 
However the massive amount of consumer switching won by this modeling is not the main reason why 
Robinhood thrives. Their competitive edge derives from the founder’s past experience working high 
frequency trading. Using algorithms to forecast trends, financial institutions would use high frequency
trading to very quickly trade large volumes at a favorable bid-ask spread. This strategy yielded small
margins of profit in a large volume of trades at a very fast pace. Robinhood earns rebates working 
in conjunction with these “money markers” by allowing them to dictate routing orders. This rebate
makes up the large part of Robinhood’s earnings and effectively replaces the commissions structures
of other brokerages. 
	Robinhood quickly captured a new demographic of traders since its debut, which may have significantly
altered the trading environment. With it’s no fees, no minimum structure andslick mobile app, Robinhood 
opened the doors for young, less wealthy, investors. Mobile savvy youth quickly took to the emerging
app trading medium without the longstanding hindrancesbeforehand. Additionally their easy to use 
design earns appeal to the less educated investor who might be otherwise confused with the more 
technical interfaces of other brokerages platforms. To accelerate customer adoption, Robinhood 
offered free stocks to any customer who signed up or signed others up. Additionally young Robinhood
users gave the company free exposure by sharing on social media sites, creating a sensationalized 
internet culture to encourage others to dream big and inspiring fomo (fear of missing out) to many 
who would otherwise just hold on to cash. Currently Robinhood has approximately 12 million users. 
However, the influx of new and largely under-educated investors has brought to question whether
making high risk trading more available is a good thing.
	Rebates from routing orders may not be a new revenue stream for brokerages, however 
Robinhood seems to have utilized the “payment for order flow” better than the competitors.Robinhood
earned $180 million dollars in the second quarter of 2020 by working with large financial institutions.
Some question what may seem to be a clandestine practice of acting as a deal broker between small 
investors and large trading firms, challenging the free market trading system. The concern is that
high frequency traders may be taking advantage of the less price sensitive low volume traders through
Robinhood’s rebate operations, effectively gaming retail investors to allow them to buy low and 
sell high. This September, news broke that the SEC has investigated the arrangement Robinhood has
with high volume traders. A rumor is now circulating that Robinhood may face a $10 million fine for
not disclosing their practices.
	Robinhood’s impact on the trading environment is hard to quantify, however many believe the 
rise of retail investors has caused increased discrepancy between stock prices and fundamental 
indicators. Indicators such as the price per earnings ratio, usually used as an indicator as to
whether or not a stock is expensive or a good trade, have fallen to the wayside in recent trading. 
Historically the average P/E for a S&P 500 company ranges between 13 to 15. However popular stocks 
have greatly deviated from this targeted range. TSLA trades at an astonishing P/E ratio of 1145.47,
ZM trades at a 560.32 P/E. These stock prices continue to raise disproportionately to their company 
value. Some analysts believe this could partly be due to eager retail investors piling on. The more 
fickle and impulsive retail investor actually acts a catalyst for more dramatic swings in stock price.
In turn, market makers, who are dialed in to what’s going on, take advantage of the instability to a
greater effect than the retail investor. However much Robinhood has contributed to the faster moving
market we have today, there are major concerns for the direction we’re heading . We’re seeing more 
and more dramatic all time highs, however many believe we’re heading, or already in, a bubble 
destined to burst. Or if not a bubble, the volatility at the very least causes strain especially 
to the short-sighted investors Robinhood attracts. 
	The moral consequences of Robinhood’s impact on the market is debatable. Nevertheless,
the tools and access provided by Robinhood is a welcome addition. Robinhood likely will not reshape
it’s revenue model, however it could adapt to appeal to different investor demographics. Right now,
Robinhood’s interface is more geared to the lower asset, casual investor. It does not offer the same
level of technicality, order execution, and portfolio management other brokerages do. Additionally,
Robinhood users suffer from downed servers and bugs. Earlier this year, Robinhood users could not 
place orders in a day of intense sell-offs and another day of a massive rally. For that reason, most
serious investors are apprehensive to switch over. Robinhood being a multi billionaire company, could
very well build a more technical and stable platform for the savvy investor. In addition to having
its current mobile and web version, it could offer the same software most other brokerages currently
have available. Moving in this direction, Robinhood could acquire the lion’s share of the investor 
market. It already has a very competitive pricing model, slick interface, and a fresh demographic. 
Why wouldn’t it want to upgrade to offer services up to par with the competition?


